# FlexBE States and Behaviors for GraspSAM

This raw repository has several folders and files with the generic name `gsam` for **GraspSAM**. 

## Prerequisite:

- Clone the **source code** for GraspSAM under [compare_GraspSAM](https://github.com/zhaohuajing/compare_GraspSAM/tree/master).
- Clone the **ROS 2 Server** for GraspSAM under [GraspSam_ros2](https://github.com/zhaohuajing/GraspSam_ros2), which can be built into a `graspsam_ros2` package that includes the msg `RunGraspSAM.srv` and two ROS2 servers:
  - `graspsam_server.py` for test run without real-time inputs. 
  - `graspsam_cam2pose_server.py` for integration with **real-time RGB-D inputs** and optionally **segmentation masks**.
- Setup the **Docker environment** using the docker files under [graspsam_docker](https://github.com/zhaohuajing/GraspSam_ros2/blob/main/graspsam_docker/Dockerfile).

---

This repository is used by the FlexBE widget 
[`create_repo`](https://github.com/FlexBE/flexbe_behavior_engine/blob/ros2-devel/flexbe_widget/bin/create_repo) 
script to create an example project that you can build off of to add your own states and behaviors.  

Using `ros2 run flexbe_widget create_repo <my_new_project_name>` will clone this repository, 
and change the relevant `gsam` text to `my_new_project_name` as needed.

It sets up the `package.xml` files with proper FlexBE export tags.
It is maintained at version `0.0.1` as the starting point for your work.

We have provided a license file to conform to ROS guidelines; however, you are free to replace the 
`LICENSE` file, and apply whatever license you choose to states and behaviors that you create.

This repository contains an example behavior and examples for writing your own state implementations.

## Example States in `gsam_flexbe_states`

Packages providing FlexBE states are identified by an export tag in the `package.xml`:

```xml
  <export>
      <flexbe_states />
      <build_type>ament_cmake</build_type>
  </export>
```

* `example_state.py `
  * Example state implementation with extra console logging to show the state life cycle.

* `example_action_state.py`

> Note: These example states are defined with extra console logging that is useful when learning FlexBE, 
> but you will typically not include so much of the `Logger.info` commands as in these examples.

> Note: You are free to copy and modify these files to create your own files and publish under your own license terms.
> As per the existing licenses, no warranty is implied.

## Example Behaviors in `gsam_flexbe_behaviors`

Packages providing FlexBE behaviors are identified by an export tag in the `package.xml`:

```xml
  <export>
      <flexbe_behaviors />
      <build_type>ament_cmake</build_type>
  </export>
```

  * `example_behavior_sm.py`
    * Most basic example state machine

  * `example_action_behavior_sm.py` 
    * Uses the `ExampleActionState` with the standard action tutorials 

        [Understanding ROS2 Actions](https://docs.ros.org/en/iron/Tutorials/Beginner-CLI-Tools/Understanding-ROS2-Actions/Understanding-ROS2-Actions.html)

        [Introducing Turtlesim](https://docs.ros.org/en/iron/Tutorials/Beginner-CLI-Tools/Introducing-Turtlesim/Introducing-Turtlesim.html)
        
        To execute the associated behavior in FlexBE, you need to first run the turtlesim node that provdes the action server

        `ros2 run turtlesim turtlesim_node`
        
        To display the available actions:

        `ros2 action list`
        
        The action is defined by:

        `/turtle1/rotate_absolute:` [`turtlesim/action/RotateAbsolute`](https://docs.ros2.org/latest/api/turtlesim/action/RotateAbsolute.html)

Behaviors typically edited and generated by the FlexBE UI.  
These generated files are stored in the root workspace `install` folder.
Presuming a `WORKSPACE_ROOT` environment variable exists, we provide a simple 
[`copy_behavior`](gsam_flexbe_behaviors/bin/copy_behavior) script to copy a saved behavior 
&mdash; both the Python implementation and manifest `.xml` file &mdash; 
to the project source folder for long term storage.
Use `ros2 run gsam_flexbe_behavior copy_behavior` to see the usage guide. 
The script should be run from this repository's base folder.

For a Quick-start and more comprehensive introduction to FlexBE, 
see the [FlexBE Turtlesim Demonstrations](https://github.com/FlexBE/flexbe_turtlesim_demo).

# gsam_flexbe
